Many families are feeling the effects of the struggling economy, and cannot afford extravagant holidays. Clinton Moodley found some places to go to in Durban, Cape Town, Joburg and Pretoria this festive season which offers you value for your money.DurbanMzinyathi Falls - Meaning House of Buffalo Bulls in Zulu, Mzinyathi Falls have kept many entertained for hours. Situated at Ebuhleni in Inanda, the Mzinyathi Falls is filled with beauty and history. In the early 19th century , the Oadi people who fled from Zulu king Dingane settled at Mzinyathi Valley, where they set up their homestead. There is also a small community of Rastafarians who live in caves below the falls that have attracted international visitors. The place has been inducted by eThekwini Municipality as a tourist attraction along the Inanda Heritage Route. Where: Inada Adventure CentrePrice: R200 for adults, R100 for children under the age of 10. Contact: 0318253495 or 0730889874. Cape Town Imhoff Farm - Fancy a camel ride? Well, Imhoff Farm is the place to visit to get one. This historical Cape farmstead offers something special for everyone in your family to enjoy. It s old world, original, beautifully situated, full of fun and tranquil. Some of the activities one can enjoy include horseback riding, a wine show, sushi restaurant and a fun place to have kiddies parties. Where: Kommetjie Rd, Imhoff s Gift, Cape TownContact: 0217834545 or e-mail [email&#160;protected] JoburgJozi X adventure centre - A day of fun and thrills is what Jozi X adventure centre promises young and old. Family members will be thoroughly entertained with the assortment of sports for adventure junkies. The highlights include zorbing, mountain boarding, the big air krush kushion jump, bubble soccer and big wheel trike drifting. Where: Cnr Main and Sloane, Bryanston, 2191Price: R252 for adults, R120 for childrenContact: [email&#160;protected] or 0824562358. Pretoria Art lovers can enjoy new and old art at the Pretoria art museum that will be opened until Friday, December 23. There is a children s gallery on offer, but parents will need to pre-book at a fee. Exhibits this festive season include the Corobrik Collection of Ceramic Art and the Blow your sculpture exhibition that will keep art fans occupied for hours. The Grafika workshop series will feature the work of youngsters who recently participated in a series of art-making workshops presented at the museum, which included sponge and stencil printmaking and water-based printmaking. Address: Schoeman St &amp; Wessels St, Arcadia Park Pretoria, Price: R22- adults, R5- children. Contact: 012 358 6750 Independent on Saturday