Parliament this year had more twists, intrigue and laughs than a South African soapie, so as 2016 draws to a close, we take a look at some of the House s more memorable moments.VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY WALKOUTSThis had to be the year of the walkout as opposition parties made it routine to leave proceedings when they did not agree with what was taking place. The EFF started it all when, during the State of the Nation address, they made good on their promise from the previous year that they would not allow Zuma to deliver his speech.The white shirts , Parliament s security detail. were called to eject the EFF MPs from the House. This was not to be the first brush the EFF were to have with the white shirts. In May, security officials were called in twice when the EFF stated they would not be addressed by the criminal Zuma. Both times, fists, bottles and hard hats flew as officials dragged MPs out. From then, other parties, including the DA and Congress of the People, staged walkouts.PAY BACK THE MONEYIn September, happened. Zuma finally paid back the money. After months of heckling from opposition parties, he coughed up R7.8million for non-essential upgrades to his Nkandla home in accordance with remedial actions by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. The payment came after the Constitutional Court ruled that Parliament had acted inconsistently with the constitution in not ensuring compliance with Madonsela s recommendations of remedial action. About R249m was spent on security upgrades to the Nkandla homestead in 2009. PARLIAMENT S OWN VOCABULARYThis year also saw our MPs adding new vocabulary to the national lexicon. We learnt of new words like Zupta and Sleepist. The word sleepist was born in April when EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi stood up to point out that International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane had fallen asleep during a sitting. I am worried this member of Parliament, that we pay so much money to, is sleeping; we are busy debating and she is sleeping on the job, he shouted. You are a sleepist! Zuma was also branded a sleepist when he nodded off during Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan s Mid-Term Budget speech.The EFF also coined the word Zupta to describe Zuma s close relationship with the controversial Gupta family.Not to be outdone, the DA came up with their own nickname for the president. The DA s Denise Robinson referred to the president as JZ783 during her speech for 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children,This was in reference to the corruption charges Zuma faced, which the National Prosecuting Authority withdrew back in 2009.ZUMA SURVIVES MOTIONS OF NO CONFIDENCEThat ultimate survivor, the president, survived two no-confidence votes against him in the space of just eight months.The first in March was tabled by the DA in response to what was termed the Nenegate scandal when Zuma fired then finance minister Nhlanhla Nene and replaced him with the then non-entity, Des van Rooyen, who was on the job for just a few days before being replaced by Gordhan.In November, the DA launched their second attempt of the year to have Zuma removed from office after the State Capture report was released.BALEKA MBETE SOFTENS TO NDLOZI S CHARMThis was the year we saw the Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete melt. Known for being a stern adjudicator during proceedings in the House, with her infamous, I do not recognise you expression, Mbete blushed when Ndlozi congratulated her on her nuptials to businessman, Nape Khomo.Rising for an urgent motion, the earnest Ndlozi went on to tell Mbete: On behalf of the EFF, we wish to congratulate you on your new marriage. We believe in love and celebrate those who found love, he told her.Saturday Star